Okay.
So congratulations on reaching the end of another core section.
In this section, we got introduced to the basics of the Composition API.
But don't worry if some of these ideas still feel a little fresh, we're going to have plenty of chances
to review them as we refactor more components throughout our app.
For now, let's take a few minutes to review everything that we learned in this section.
So the composition API offers us a new way to build the view components in view.
It complements the existing options API, so it is designed to live alongside it.
You're not obligated to use it.
There is no announcement or any current plans to deprecate or remove the options API.
The composition API simply offered offers an alternative way to build Vue components and it can sometimes
be beneficial because of the way it's designed.
So how does it work?
We define all of our logic in a setup method in the component file, and with that approach we of course
get rid of all of the old features of the options API like the data method, computed properties, methods,
etc. We put all of our logic inside the setup method.
So how does that work?
While the setup method does not have access to the this keyword.
So we're going to have to wire up all our logic inside it using plain JavaScript concepts.
So for example, we use the ref function to define a piece of reactive state.
In other words, data that is going to change over time that is somehow going to affect our template.
Maybe it's a piece of data that's going to be rendered.
Or maybe it's a boolean that we're going to use in a VRF directive.
It doesn't really matter.
It's just a piece of state that has to live on the JavaScript side of things that's going to interact
with our HTML template.
So you can almost think of the ref function as analogous or similar or comparable to what data does
in the options API.
It kind of initializes the starting state of something that's going to change over time.
So we use Ref to create an initial starting value, but how do we update that value when it's time for
it to change?
In order to do that.
We simply use plain JavaScript functions to operate on and change that reactive data that we create
with ref.
But remember, because we're dealing with reactive objects, we have to read or write the value property
on each one of those respective objects.
So these plain JavaScript functions are analogous to or comparable to methods in the Options API.
And that's one of the benefits of the composition API, is that it uses a lot more simpler basic JavaScript
concepts.
It's just a basic function that's going to set a value property on an object.
That's how we update an object that is reactive, and Vue automatically knows to track that and to update
that, for example, in our template, simply because that reactive object state has changed.
Finally, we saw that we can use the computed function to rerun logic whenever a reactive piece of state
changes.
So once again, we don't want to use computed whenever we have original state, we want to use it when
we have derive state dependent state state that needs other data to exist in order to formulate itself.
So we passed the computed function, a function as an argument, and that's the function that we're
telling Vue to re invoke whenever a piece of state changes.
Now, if you are going to keep track of the actual piece of state that you reference inside that function
that you passed the computer, and whenever any one of those reactive objects change, Vue will rerun
the function that you passed the computer and it's going to give it back to you as a return value of
its own reactive object.
Right.
Now, all of these things that we define as our ref data, our functions or our computed functions,
remember that from the setup method we have to return a plain JavaScript object and there is where we
want to put any of the properties that we want to be able to utilize in our template.
So if we want to reference a computed property or a RAF property, we have to return it in that object.
If we want to provide a function to execute, whenever we, for example, have a click event, we also
have to return it as a property in that object.
Whatever property name we give in that JavaScript object that we return from, the setup method is what
we can use in our template.
Right.
All right.
So finally, we saw over the course of the last couple lessons that sometimes we may need to work with
props in our setup method.
For example, props may form the basis of a dynamic piece of content in our component, such as XSS
classes.
So luckily the setup method receives a reactive object of the components props as its first argument.
So whatever the parent passes down into the component view is going to bundle all of those props up
and an object of props.
It's going to give it to you as the first R2 and then you can utilize those props.
For example, the computer access classes.
We did that with the computed function in the last couple lessons.
Now the props object is reactive, but its individual properties are not.
So if we're simply doing something like props, that type, we can do that in a computed function and
it will work by itself because Vue knows that the props object is reactive.
And simply because we're referencing that object in the computed function, it knows that it has to
reevaluate.
But things get a lot more trickier when we try to do structure from that props object, because individual
properties that we do structure from the reactive props object are not themselves reactive.
What we can do to solve that problem is to pass the props object to the to Raf's function.
We import that from viewers as well and that two refs function returns an object where every property
is reactive.
Every property corresponds to a reactive object with its own value property.
Which brings me to another important point.
You can de structure properties from the object return by two refs, but be sure to remember that the
properties are now individual reactive objects.
Right?
Thus, if you want to access the underlying value, for example, in the last lesson we wanted to do
that as our string key in a or a property in an object.
We have to remember to use that value because that gets the underlying piece of state.
That view is keeping track of that piece of state can certainly change.
You can update it.
But once again, whenever you have to redo or to update it, you have to access dot value on that reactive
object because two ROS is giving you back and reactive objects in the structured properties, not the
basic values underneath.
All right.
Finally, when you use reactive objects in your HTML section of the component view knows to extract
their underlying value.
So in JavaScript, we have to access that value.
But our HTML, we do not.
So if we have a reactive object that storing a boolean in its value property, you can simply use that
reactive object in a VRF directive.
You don't need to access that value in the template.
Similarly, if you want to interpolate the value of a reactive object, you can simply use double curly
braces and write the reactive object in line.
View understands that it should actually display the underlying text there and also updated if the reactive
object updates as well.
On the script side of things.
However, in the template, the connection is established between reactive objects and the actual HTML,
so you do not need to access that value in the template.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this section.
Lots more fun stuff up ahead with the composition API in the follow up sections.
So I look forward to it and I will see you there.